movement;Stationary;The enemy does no move at all.;
movement;Walker;The enemy walks or runs along the ground.;Super Mario's Goombas
movement;Riser;The enemy can increase its height (often, can rise from nothing).;Super Mario's Piranha Plants and Castlevania's Mud Man
movement;Ducker;The enemy can reduce its height (including, melting into the floor).;Super Mario's Piranha Plants
movement;Faller;The enemy falls from the ceiling onto the ground.;Usually these enemies are drops of something, like acid. Some games have slimes that do this.
movement;Jumper;The enemy can bounce or jump. (some jump forward, some jump straight up and down).;Donkey Kong's Springs, Super Mario 2's Tweeter, Super Mario 2's Ninji
movement;Floater;The enemy can float, fly, or levitate.;Castlevania's Bats
movement;Sticky;The enemy sticks to walls and ceilings.;Super Mario 2's Spark
movement;Waver;The enemy floats in a sine wave pattern.;Castlevania's Medusa Head
movement;Rotator;The enemy rotates around a fixed point. Sometimes, the fixed point moves, and can move according to any movement attribute in this list. Also, the rotation direction may change.;Super Mario 3's Rotodisc
movement;Swinger;The enemy swings from a fixed point.;Castlevania's swinging blades
movement;Pacer;The enemy changes direction in response to a trigger (like reaching the edge of a platform).;Super Mario's Red Koopas
movement;Follower;The enemy follows the player (Often used in top-down games).;Zelda 3's Hard Hat Beetles
movement;Roamer;The enemy changes direction completely randomly.;Legend of Zelda's Octoroks
movement;Liner;The enemy moves directly to a spot on the screen.;
movement;Teleporter;The enemy can teleport from one location to another.;Zelda's Wizrobes
movement;Dasher;The enemy dashes in a direction, faster than its normal movement speed.;Zelda's Rope Snakes
movement;Ponger;The enemy ignores gravity and physics, and bounces off walls in straight lines.;Zelda 2's Bubbles
movement;Geobound;The enemy is physically stuck to the geometry of the level, sometimes appears as level geometry.;Megaman's Spikes, Super Mario's Piranha Plants, CastleVania's White Dragon
movement;Tethered;The enemy is tethered to the level's geometry by a chain or a rope.;Super Mario's Chain Chomps
movement;Swooper;A floating enemy that swoops down, often returning to its original position, but not always.;Castlevania's Bats, Super Mario's Swoopers, Super Mario 3's Angry Sun
passive;GeoIgnore;The enemy ignores the properties of the level's geometry and can pass through solid objects.;Super Mario 3's Rotodisc, many flying enemies will ignore geometry as well.
passive;Shielder;Player attacks are nullified when hit from a specific direction or angle, or hit a specific spot on the enemy.;Zelda 2's Dark Nuts
passive;Deflector;Player's ranged attacks are reflected when the enemy is hit by them.;
passive;Secret spot;The enemy has a specific spot where damage can only be taken when that spot is hit. The opposite of a Shielder.;Many bosses have this attribute.
passive;Invulnerable;The enemy cannot be harmed or killed.;Most are geometry based hazards (spikes, mashing blocks, fire spouts), but also includes enemies like Super Mario 3's Boo Brothers.
passive;Revivor;The enemy is revived after dying.;Castlevania's Skeletons, Super Mario's Dry Bones.
passive;Regenerator;The enemy's health is regenerated over time;
passive;Secret Weakness;The enemy is vulnerable to specific types of attacks (fire, magic, arrows, etc).;Zelda's Dodogno (weakness to bombs).
passive;Hard to Hit;These enemies are specifically hard to hit with by the player's normal attack ranges. They are aften very fast, or very tiny.;Zelda 2's Myu
passive;Segmented;These enemies are made up of smaller individual objects. Each individual segment can often be destroyed independently, and are often in snake-form.;
passive;Bumper;These enemies act like pinball bumpers, pushing the player (or other objects) away quickly.;Zelda 3's Hard Hat Beetles
passive;GeoMimic;These enemies have properties of level geometry. Most commonly, the player can stand on them.;Most enemies in Mario 2, Megaman X's Sigma, Castlevania's Catoblepas
passive;Alarm;An enemy or object that causes another enemy or object to react.;
ability;Grower;The enemy can grow in size.;
ability;Shrinker;The enemy can shrink in size.;
ability;Forcer;The enemy can apply direct movement force to the player.;Treadmills found in most games apply, as well as enemies who blow air at the player, causing them to move backwards.
ability;Carrier;The enemy can carry another enemy, an object, or the player. ;Enemies that pick up the player, that 'eat' the player and spit it out again, or otherwise grab and restrict the movement of the player;Zelda's WallMasters
ability;Thrower;The enemy can throw whatever it is holding (an object, the player, or another enemy). This is often combined with Carriers, but not always.;Castlevania's Barrel throwing Skeletons, Super Mario 3's Buster Beetle
ability;Emitter;The enemy 'emits' another enemy or projectile. This type is very similar to the Thrower, and the differences are mostly semantic. The main difference being that throwers throw an object they've picked up or spawn with, while Emitters have an infinite supply of the things they can throw out.;Super Mario 3's Bullet Bill Cannons, Super Mario's Lakitus, anything that has a gun, Gauntlet's enemy spawners.
ability;Splitter;The enemy can split into multiple other enemies while destroying itself.;Rogue Legacy's Slimes, Legend of Zelda's Vire and Biri.
ability;Cloner;The enemy can duplicate itself. Often, the duplicate is an exact clone, but sometimes, the duplicate is very slightly modified (such as having reduced health, or being faster). The enemy that does the cloning is not destroyed.;Zelda's Ghini
ability;Morpher;The enemy morphs into another enemy type. Sometimes, this is temporary, and sometimes, the enemy will morph into multiple other types of enemies.;
ability;Sapper;The enemy can cause the player's stats to be modified (slower speed, reduced or eliminated jump, inability to attack, etc). These effects can be either permanent or temporary.;
ability;Latcher;Like a Sapper, the enemy can drain the player's stats and abilities, but does so by latching on to the player.;Mario 3's Mini-Goombas, Zelda's Like-Likes.
ability;Hider;The enemy can hide from the player. Typically, the enemy is hidden until the player comes within a set distance, or the inverse where the enemy hides once the player comes too close.;Mario's Piranha Plants.
ability;Switcher;The enemy can toggle between various attributes, such as being stationary and invincible and switching to being a pacer and vulnerable.;Mario's Boo Brothers, Zelda's Peahats.
ability;Exploder;The enemy can destroy itself and cause splash damage.;Proximity Mines found in many games, Mario's Bo-Bombs
ability;Interactor;The enemy can interact with scripted objects, such as levers or buttons.;
trigger;On Hit;Is hit by player;
trigger;On Damage;Hits player;
trigger;Timer; After X seconds, change behavior;this is most typical of bosses
trigger;Sequence;Follows another action it previously performed;After the enemy attacks, it dashes backwards
trigger;Proximity; Distance to the player or an object;
trigger;Random; Enemies randomly choose their next behavior or set of attributes in their AI;
trigger;Line of Sight;The player has direct line of sight to the enemy;
trigger;No Line of Sight;The player does not have direct line of sight to the enemy.;
variation;Movement Speed;;
variation;Jump Height;;
variation;Dash Length;Does the enemy dash in short bursts, or all the way across the screen?;
variation;Attack Range;;
variation;Splash damage radius;;